src/documents/en/host/install/index.html.md, before:

---
title: "Install"
layout: "default"
category: "host"
menuOrder: 0
toc: false
urls: ["/host/"]
---


# Install Cozy

You have several ways to install Cozy on your own. Cozy is architecture and platform agnostic, since it is basically composed of Node.JS daemons on top of CouchDB.

A minimum amount of RAM is required though: **1024MB** is a good start for 6 Cozy applications running simultaneously.

<br>

*Follow one of the guide below to get started:*

## On a Dedicated or Virtual Private Server

<div class="install-logo">

  <a href="install-on-ovh.html">
    ![OVH](/assets/images/host/ovh-logo.svg)<div class="label">OVH</div>
  </a>

  <a href="install-on-scaleway.html">
    ![Scaleway](/assets/images/host/scaleway-logo.svg)
    <div class="label">Scaleway</div>
  </a>

  <a href="install-on-digitalocean.html">
    ![DigitalOcean](/assets/images/host/digitalocean-logo.svg)
    <div class="label">DigitalOcean</div>
  </a>

  <a href="install-on-swhosting.html">
    ![SWHosting](/assets/images/host/swhosting-logo.svg)<div class="label">SWHosting</div>
  </a>
</div>


## On your hardware

<div class="install-logo">
  <a href="install-on-raspberry.html">
    ![RaspberryPi](/assets/images/host/raspberry-logo.svg)<div class="label">Raspberry Pi 2 and 3</div>
  </a>
  <a href="install-on-ubuntu.html">
    ![Ubuntu](/assets/images/host/ubuntu-logo.svg)<div class="label">Ubuntu</div>
  </a>
  <a href="install-on-debian.html">
    ![Debian](/assets/images/host/debian-logo.svg)<div class="label">Debian (64 bits)</div>
  </a>
  <a href="install-on-archlinux.html">
    ![Archlinux](/assets/images/host/archlinux-logo.svg)<div class="label">Archlinux</div>
  </a>
  <a href="install-step-by-step.html">
    ![StepByStep](/assets/images/host/cozy-logo.svg)<div class="label">Step by step</div>
  </a>
</div>


## On a Virtual Machine

<div class="install-logo">
  <a href="install-on-virtualbox.html">
    ![VirtualBox](/assets/images/host/virtualbox-logo.svg)<div class="label">VirtualBox</div>
  </a>
  <a href="install-on-docker.html">
    ![Docker](/assets/images/host/docker-logo.svg)<div class="label">Docker</div>
  </a>
</div>

</form>

Commit message:

Add deprecation warning on every install documentation

src/documents/en/host/install/index.html.md, after:

---
title: "Install"
layout: "default"
category: "host"
menuOrder: 0
toc: false
urls: ["/host/"]
---


# Install Cozy

---

** <img src="/assets/images/warning.png" alt="warning" class="warn">This document with instructions explains how to install the old Cozy prototype, but is now out of date. Instructions on how to install the new Cozy will be available soon. Stay tuned!**

---

You have several ways to install Cozy on your own. Cozy is architecture and platform agnostic, since it is basically composed of Node.JS daemons on top of CouchDB.

A minimum amount of RAM is required though: **1024MB** is a good start for 6 Cozy applications running simultaneously.

<br>

*Follow one of the guide below to get started:*

## On a Dedicated or Virtual Private Server

<div class="install-logo">

  <a href="install-on-ovh.html">
    ![OVH](/assets/images/host/ovh-logo.svg)<div class="label">OVH</div>
  </a>

  <a href="install-on-scaleway.html">
    ![Scaleway](/assets/images/host/scaleway-logo.svg)
    <div class="label">Scaleway</div>
  </a>

  <a href="install-on-digitalocean.html">
    ![DigitalOcean](/assets/images/host/digitalocean-logo.svg)
    <div class="label">DigitalOcean</div>
  </a>

  <a href="install-on-swhosting.html">
    ![SWHosting](/assets/images/host/swhosting-logo.svg)<div class="label">SWHosting</div>
  </a>
</div>


## On your hardware

<div class="install-logo">
  <a href="install-on-raspberry.html">
    ![RaspberryPi](/assets/images/host/raspberry-logo.svg)<div class="label">Raspberry Pi 2 and 3</div>
  </a>
  <a href="install-on-ubuntu.html">
    ![Ubuntu](/assets/images/host/ubuntu-logo.svg)<div class="label">Ubuntu</div>
  </a>
  <a href="install-on-debian.html">
    ![Debian](/assets/images/host/debian-logo.svg)<div class="label">Debian (64 bits)</div>
  </a>
  <a href="install-on-archlinux.html">
    ![Archlinux](/assets/images/host/archlinux-logo.svg)<div class="label">Archlinux</div>
  </a>
  <a href="install-step-by-step.html">
    ![StepByStep](/assets/images/host/cozy-logo.svg)<div class="label">Step by step</div>
  </a>
</div>


## On a Virtual Machine

<div class="install-logo">
  <a href="install-on-virtualbox.html">
    ![VirtualBox](/assets/images/host/virtualbox-logo.svg)<div class="label">VirtualBox</div>
  </a>
  <a href="install-on-docker.html">
    ![Docker](/assets/images/host/docker-logo.svg)<div class="label">Docker</div>
  </a>
</div>

</form>
