src/documents/en/hack/getting-started/setup-environment.html.md, before:

---
title: "Setting up the environment"
layout: "default"
category: "hack"
menuOrder: 1
toc: true
---

# Setting up the environment

Welcome to the first step to get you started: the development environment setup
process.

Since Cozy is built on many software bricks, we wrapped it into an easy-to-use
virtual machine, so you don't pollute your local system. That also means you can
use the operation system you like (well, there are obviously issues on Windows)!

## Installing dependencies

Before doing anything, install the following:

### For simple applications

#### Node.js (v0.10.26) (<a href="http://blog.nodejs.org/2014/02/18/node-v0-10-26-stable/" target="_blank">download</a>)
Node.js powers awesome tools that we use to develop apps. We also wrote a tool
to manage the virtual machine more easily.
If you have trouble installing NodeJS on your system, check the [official guilde](https://github.com/joyent/node/wiki/Installing-Node.js-via-package-manager).

If you already have NodeJS installed, but not the 0.10.26 version, you can use a version manager like https://github.com/tj/n.

#### Git (<a href="http://git-scm.com/book/en/Getting-Started-Installing-Git" target="_blank">download</a>)

Git is a control version tool that is now very common. We use it in combination
with [Github](https://github.com) that allows you to store online your
repository and much more!

If you don't want access to the specific features of Cozy Cloud, you can stop
here and jump to our [first tutorial](/hack/getting-started/first-app.html).

### For applications that take advantage of the Data System

#### VirtualBox (>= v4.3.0) (<a href="https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads" target="_blank">download</a>)
Virtual Box allows you to run virtual machines on your computer. We use it
indirectly with Vagrant to power our virtual machine.
(Latest tested version: 4.3.0)

#### Vagrant (= v1.7.1) (<a href="https://www.vagrantup.com/downloads.html" target="_blank">download</a>)
Vagrant is a tool to "create and configure lightweight, reproducible and
portable development environments." That's what we need here! We use it through
a custom CLI tool, so you will not manipulate it directly.
(Latest tested version: 1.7.2)

#### [Cozy for developers](https://github.com/cozy/cozy-dev)

You will also need our tool:

``` bash
sudo npm install -g cozy-dev
```

The `cozy-dev` tool will allow you to create and manage a virtual machine with a Cozy development environment, without dealing yourself with VirtualBox and Vagrant. Also, it can generate application skeletons from templates.


### Initializing and starting the virtual machine

The next step is to get your virtual machine. Basically, you are going to
have a linux running on your computer with all a Cozy needs to work on already
installed and configured.

To help you managing the VM, the Cozy Manager comes to the rescue.

Create a folder that will contain all your source code:
``` bash
mkdir cozy && cd cozy
```

Now you can use the Cozy Manager to initialize the VM by running:
``` bash
cozy-dev vm:init
```
This will download the base box file (~500MB) and a custom configuration ([see
it on
Github](https://github.com/cozy/cozy-setup/blob/master/dev/Vagrantfile)).
Then the VM will be created. The whole process will take about 5-10 minutes
(depending on your internet connection and your computer).

Then you can start the VM and check that everything is running correctly.
``` bash
cozy-dev vm:start
cozy-dev vm:status
```

We advise you to update the VM the first time you start it (and regularly),
because we don't update the base box each time we improve or fix a bug in the
Cozy platform:
```bash
cozy-dev vm:update
```
This will just update the software within the running VM, it won't download anything and all your data will be kept.

You can go to `http://localhost:9104/` in order to see your Cozy running. You can use it, but beware! The Cozy running in your virtual machine is in development mode, meaning that most of the security measures are disabled. Only use it for
testing purposes.

You can find everything you need to know about `cozy-dev` in [the cookbook](/hack/cookbooks/understanding-dev-environment.html#deploy), but we will introduce the concepts as we go in the next steps of the tutorial.
You are now ready to [write your first application](/hack/getting-started/first-app.html).


## Troubleshootings

### My VM is not starting and says there's an error

The first thing to try is update the VM with cozy-dev: `cozy-dev vm:update`

It will fetch the last changes and may fixe some problems. Then you can try to start your VM again with `cozy-dev vm:start`

### My VM displays a lot of 'SSH Timeout'

That can be "normal". It occurs when the network is not yet configured on the VM.
You can force Virtual Box to open its GUI and check what is happening.

Stop the vm with `cozy-dev vm:stop`, then open the `Vagrantfile` and paste

```bash
config.vm.provider :virtualbox do |vb|
  vb.gui = true
end
```

after `Vagrant.configure("2") do |config|`. You can now `cozy-dev vm-start` and have the Virtual Box GUI. what you may see in this case is the VM displaying "Waiting 60 more seconds for network configuration". Just be patient. It should work by itself and display the login prompt after a bit.

### It still doesn't work

If your application only need access to the data-system, you can clone the data-system repository and use it standalone.
You'll need to have couchdb installed (with apt, or homebrew etc.) with its dependencies.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/cozy/cozy-data-system.git
cd cozy-data-system
npm install
coffee server.coffee
```

Your data-system should now run, you can now build your app and access it. Example with the cozy-calendar repo:

```bash
cd cozy-calendar
npm install
coffee server.coffee
```
then head to `http://127.0.0.1:9113`

Commit message:

Clarity and prose style.
Again, I'm just trying to help keep the text clear, and/or make small edits to make it sound more "natural" to my ear.

On Line 14, I would recommend against using the word "pollute" -- it makes Cozy sound *toxic*.

In the section titled "My VM displays a lot of SSH Timeout", I removed bash syntax highlighting, because it's a vagrantfile code snippet not a shell command.

src/documents/en/hack/getting-started/setup-environment.html.md, after:

---
title: "Setting up the environment"
layout: "default"
category: "hack"
menuOrder: 1
toc: true
---

# Setting up the environment

Welcome to the first step: setting up your development environment.

Since Cozy is made from several pieces, we wrapped it into an easy-to-use
virtual machine, so you don't clutter your local system. That also means you can
use the operation system you like! (Well, there are obviously issues on Windows.)

## Installing dependencies

Before doing anything, install the following:

### For simple applications

#### Node.js (v0.10.26) (<a href="http://blog.nodejs.org/2014/02/18/node-v0-10-26-stable/" target="_blank">download</a>)
Node.js powers awesome tools that we use to develop apps. We also wrote a tool
to manage the virtual machine more easily.
If you have trouble installing NodeJS on your system, check the [official guilde](https://github.com/joyent/node/wiki/Installing-Node.js-via-package-manager).

If you already have NodeJS installed, but not the 0.10.26 version, you can use a version manager like https://github.com/tj/n.

#### Git (<a href="http://git-scm.com/book/en/Getting-Started-Installing-Git" target="_blank">download</a>)

Git is a version control tool that is now very common. We use it in combination
with [Github](https://github.com), which allows you to store your repository online
and much more!

If you don't want access to the specific features of Cozy Cloud, you can stop
here and jump to our [first tutorial](/hack/getting-started/first-app.html).

### For applications that take advantage of the Data System

#### VirtualBox (>= v4.3.0) (<a href="https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads" target="_blank">download</a>)
Virtual Box allows you to run virtual machines on your computer. We use it
indirectly with Vagrant to power our virtual machine.
(Latest tested version: 4.3.0)

#### Vagrant (= v1.7.1) (<a href="https://www.vagrantup.com/downloads.html" target="_blank">download</a>)
Vagrant is a tool to "create and configure lightweight, reproducible and
portable development environments." That's what we need here! We use it through
a custom CLI tool, so you will not manipulate it directly.
(Latest tested version: 1.7.2)

#### [Cozy for developers](https://github.com/cozy/cozy-dev)

You will also need our tool:

``` bash
sudo npm install -g cozy-dev
```

The `cozy-dev` tool will allow you to create and manage a virtual machine with a Cozy development environment, without dealing yourself with VirtualBox and Vagrant. Also, it can generate application skeletons from templates.


### Initializing and starting the virtual machine

The next step is to get your virtual machine. Basically, you are going to
have a Linux-based OS running on your computer with all a Cozy needs to work already
installed and configured.

To help you managing the VM, the Cozy Manager comes to the rescue.

Create a folder that will contain all your source code:
``` bash
mkdir cozy && cd cozy
```

Now you can use the Cozy Manager to initialize the VM by running:
``` bash
cozy-dev vm:init
```
This will download the base box file (~500MB) and a custom configuration
([see it on Github](https://github.com/cozy/cozy-setup/blob/master/dev/Vagrantfile)).
Then the VM will be created. The whole process will take about 5-10 minutes
(depending on your internet connection and your computer).

Then you can start the VM and check that everything is running correctly.
``` bash
cozy-dev vm:start
cozy-dev vm:status
```

We advise you to update the VM the first time you start it (and regularly after that),
because we don't update the base box each time we improve or fix a bug in the
Cozy platform:
```bash
cozy-dev vm:update
```
This will just update the software within the running VM, it won't download anything and all your data will be kept.

You can go to `http://localhost:9104/` in order to see your Cozy running. You can use it, but beware! The Cozy running in your virtual machine is in development mode, meaning that most of the security measures are disabled. Only use it for
testing purposes.

You can find everything you need to know about `cozy-dev` in [the cookbook](/hack/cookbooks/understanding-dev-environment.html#deploy), but we will introduce the concepts as we go in the next steps of the tutorial.
You are now ready to [write your first application](/hack/getting-started/first-app.html).


## Troubleshootings

### My VM is not starting and says there's an error

The first thing to try is update the VM with cozy-dev: `cozy-dev vm:update`

It will fetch the last changes and may fix some problems. Then you can try to start your VM again with `cozy-dev vm:start`

### My VM displays a lot of 'SSH Timeout'

That can be "normal". It occurs when the network is not yet configured on the VM.
You can force Virtual Box to open its GUI and check what is happening.

Stop the vm with `cozy-dev vm:stop`, then open the `Vagrantfile`.
Look for where it says `Vagrant.configure("2") do |config|`
and underneath that, paste this:

```
config.vm.provider :virtualbox do |vb|
  vb.gui = true
end
```

You can now rung `cozy-dev vm-start` and have the Virtual Box GUI. What you may see in this case is the VM displaying "Waiting 60 more seconds for network configuration". Just be patient. It should work by itself and display the login prompt after a bit.

### It still doesn't work

If your application only need access to the data-system, you can clone the data-system repository and use it standalone.
You'll need to install couchdb along with its dependencies.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/cozy/cozy-data-system.git
cd cozy-data-system
npm install
coffee server.coffee
```

Your data-system should now run, you can now build your app and access it. 
Here's an example with the cozy-calendar repo:

```bash
cd cozy-calendar
npm install
coffee server.coffee
```
then head to `http://127.0.0.1:9113`
