src/documents/hack/getting-started/setup-environment.html.md, before:

---
title: "Setting up the environment"
layout: "default"
category: "hack"
menuOrder: 1
toc: true
---

# Setting up the environment

Welcome to the first step to get you started: the development environment setup
process.

Since Cozy is built on many software bricks, we wrapped it into an easy-to-use
virtual machine, so you don't pollute your local system. That also means you can
use the operation system you like (well, there are obviously issues on Windows)!

## Installing dependencies

Before doing anything, install the following:

### For simple applications

#### Node.js (v0.10.26) (<a href="http://blog.nodejs.org/2014/02/18/node-v0-10-26-stable/" target="_blank">download</a>)
Node.js powers awesome tools that we use to develop apps. We also wrote a tool
to manage the virtual machine more easily.
If you have trouble installing NodeJS on your system, check the [official guilde](https://github.com/joyent/node/wiki/Installing-Node.js-via-package-manager).

If you already have NodeJS installed, but not the 0.10.26 version, you can use a version manager like https://github.com/tj/n.

#### Git (<a href="http://git-scm.com/book/en/Getting-Started-Installing-Git" target="_blank">download</a>)

Git is a control version tool that is now very common. We use it in combination
with [Github](https://github.com) that allows you to store online your
repository and much more!

If you don't want access to the specific features of Cozy Cloud, you can stop
here and jump to our [first tutorial](hack/getting-started/first-app.html).

### For applications that take advantage of the Data System

#### VirtualBox (>= v4.3.0) (<a href="https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads" target="_blank">download</a>)
Virtual Box allows you to run virtual machines on your computer. We use it
indirectly with Vagrant to power our virtual machine.
(Latest tested version: 4.3.0)

#### Vagrant (>= v1.7.2) (<a href="https://www.vagrantup.com/downloads.html" target="_blank">download</a>)
Vagrant is a tool to "create and configure lightweight, reproducible and
portable development environments." That's what we need here! We use it through
a custom CLI tool, so you will not manipulate it directly.
(Latest tested version: 1.7.2)

#### [Cozy for developers](https://github.com/cozy/cozy-dev)

You will also need our tool:

``` bash
sudo npm install -g cozy-dev
```

The `cozy-dev` tool will allow you to create and manage a virtual machine with a Cozy development environment, without dealing yourself with VirtualBox and Vagrant. Also, it can generate application skeletons from templates.


### Initializing and starting the virtual machine

The next step is to get your virtual machine. Basically, you are going to
have a linux running on your computer with all a Cozy needs to work on already
installed and configured.

To help you managing the VM, the Cozy Manager comes to the rescue.

Create a folder that will contain all your source code:
``` bash
mkdir cozy && cd cozy
```

Now you can use the Cozy Manager to initialize the VM by running:
``` bash
cozy-dev vm:init
```
This will download the base box file (~500MB) and a custom configuration ([see
it on
Github](https://github.com/cozy/cozy-setup/blob/master/dev/Vagrantfile)).
Then the VM will be created. The whole process will take about 5-10 minutes
(depending on your internet connection and your computer).

Then you can start the VM and check that everything is running correctly.
``` bash
cozy-dev vm:start
cozy-dev vm:status
```

We advise you to update the VM the first time you start it (and regularly),
because we don't update the base box each time we improve or fix a bug in the
Cozy platform:
```bash
cozy-dev vm:update
```
This will just update the software within the running VM, it won't download anything and all your data will be kept.

You can go to `http://localhost:9104/` in order to see your Cozy running. You can use it, but beware! The Cozy running in your virtual machine is in development mode, meaning that most of the security measures are disabled. Only use it for
testing purposes.

You are now ready to [write your first application](/hack/getting-started/first-app.html).

Commit message:

Added: mentions to cozy-dev cookbooks in tutorial

src/documents/hack/getting-started/setup-environment.html.md, after:

---
title: "Setting up the environment"
layout: "default"
category: "hack"
menuOrder: 1
toc: true
---

# Setting up the environment

Welcome to the first step to get you started: the development environment setup
process.

Since Cozy is built on many software bricks, we wrapped it into an easy-to-use
virtual machine, so you don't pollute your local system. That also means you can
use the operation system you like (well, there are obviously issues on Windows)!

## Installing dependencies

Before doing anything, install the following:

### For simple applications

#### Node.js (v0.10.26) (<a href="http://blog.nodejs.org/2014/02/18/node-v0-10-26-stable/" target="_blank">download</a>)
Node.js powers awesome tools that we use to develop apps. We also wrote a tool
to manage the virtual machine more easily.
If you have trouble installing NodeJS on your system, check the [official guilde](https://github.com/joyent/node/wiki/Installing-Node.js-via-package-manager).

If you already have NodeJS installed, but not the 0.10.26 version, you can use a version manager like https://github.com/tj/n.

#### Git (<a href="http://git-scm.com/book/en/Getting-Started-Installing-Git" target="_blank">download</a>)

Git is a control version tool that is now very common. We use it in combination
with [Github](https://github.com) that allows you to store online your
repository and much more!

If you don't want access to the specific features of Cozy Cloud, you can stop
here and jump to our [first tutorial](hack/getting-started/first-app.html).

### For applications that take advantage of the Data System

#### VirtualBox (>= v4.3.0) (<a href="https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads" target="_blank">download</a>)
Virtual Box allows you to run virtual machines on your computer. We use it
indirectly with Vagrant to power our virtual machine.
(Latest tested version: 4.3.0)

#### Vagrant (>= v1.7.2) (<a href="https://www.vagrantup.com/downloads.html" target="_blank">download</a>)
Vagrant is a tool to "create and configure lightweight, reproducible and
portable development environments." That's what we need here! We use it through
a custom CLI tool, so you will not manipulate it directly.
(Latest tested version: 1.7.2)

#### [Cozy for developers](https://github.com/cozy/cozy-dev)

You will also need our tool:

``` bash
sudo npm install -g cozy-dev
```

The `cozy-dev` tool will allow you to create and manage a virtual machine with a Cozy development environment, without dealing yourself with VirtualBox and Vagrant. Also, it can generate application skeletons from templates.


### Initializing and starting the virtual machine

The next step is to get your virtual machine. Basically, you are going to
have a linux running on your computer with all a Cozy needs to work on already
installed and configured.

To help you managing the VM, the Cozy Manager comes to the rescue.

Create a folder that will contain all your source code:
``` bash
mkdir cozy && cd cozy
```

Now you can use the Cozy Manager to initialize the VM by running:
``` bash
cozy-dev vm:init
```
This will download the base box file (~500MB) and a custom configuration ([see
it on
Github](https://github.com/cozy/cozy-setup/blob/master/dev/Vagrantfile)).
Then the VM will be created. The whole process will take about 5-10 minutes
(depending on your internet connection and your computer).

Then you can start the VM and check that everything is running correctly.
``` bash
cozy-dev vm:start
cozy-dev vm:status
```

We advise you to update the VM the first time you start it (and regularly),
because we don't update the base box each time we improve or fix a bug in the
Cozy platform:
```bash
cozy-dev vm:update
```
This will just update the software within the running VM, it won't download anything and all your data will be kept.

You can go to `http://localhost:9104/` in order to see your Cozy running. You can use it, but beware! The Cozy running in your virtual machine is in development mode, meaning that most of the security measures are disabled. Only use it for
testing purposes.

You can find everything you need to know about `cozy-dev` in [the cookbook](/hack/cookbooks/understanding-dev-environment.html#deploy), but we will introduce the concepts as we go in the next steps of the tutorial.
You are now ready to [write your first application](/hack/getting-started/first-app.html).
