src/documents/en/faq.html.md, before:

---
title: "Frequently Asked Questions"
layout: "single-page"
toc: true
---

# Frequently Asked Questions

## How can I find assistance?

There are several ways to contact our friendly Support team:
 - come and chat with us on IRC, chan #cozycloud on irc.freenode.net (also available [on the Web](https://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=cozycloud));
 - ask questions on the forum [forum.cozy.io](https://forum.cozy.io/) where the community is always ready to help;
 - if you encouter issues on your server, describe them in the form inside the Help page (available at the bottom of the Home app). This form will send us some informations so we can debug the problem;
 - and of course, you can send us emails at the following address: support@cozycloud.cc.

## Where is your datacenter located?

Our infrastructure is located in Roubaix, France.

## Is my data safe?

Cozy has put in place several features in order to protect the user’s data. For instance, all the passwords you store inside Cozy are encrypted using your main password, so even in case of data breach, your bank or email account credentials will stay safe.
We also perform daily backups of your data, so we can restore them if needed.


## How much data can I store on my server

We provide 40GB of storage with each instance (well, technically 60GB are available, but we recommend for now not to use more than 40GB)

## What can i do if I forget my password ?

Once your password has been updated, you will have to look around all the applications that requires a password for connecting from an external account (for example Mail, Konnectors, Kresus...), and add again your new password to these accounts. For security reasons, when the password of the server is changed, we delete the different password of your other accounts stocked in Cozy.

If you are interested by how encryption works in CozyCloud, please visit [this](https://cozy.io/en/hack/cookbooks/encryption.html) page. 
 

---

Commit message:

Add infos on beta programm to FAQ

src/documents/en/faq.html.md, after:

---
title: "Frequently Asked Questions"
layout: "single-page"
toc: true
---

# Frequently Asked Questions

## How can I test Cozy

First, you could have a look at the [demo server](https://demo.cozycloud.cc/).

If you want to fully test our services, you can [ask for a free instance](https://cozy.io/en/#contact) as a beta tester. Just enter your email on this form. The space on our servers is limited, so you will be put on a waiting list. After submitting the form, you will receive two messages, the first one asking to confirm your email address, the second to confirm that you’re on the waiting list. Once your instance will be ready, we’ll send you another email with a link to it. Following this link, you’ll be able to setup your password and configure your instance.

## How can I find assistance?

There are several ways to contact our friendly Support team:
 - come and chat with us on IRC, chan #cozycloud on irc.freenode.net (also available [on the Web](https://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=cozycloud));
 - ask questions on the forum [forum.cozy.io](https://forum.cozy.io/) where the community is always ready to help;
 - if you encouter issues on your server, describe them in the form inside the Help page (available at the bottom of the Home app). This form will send us some informations so we can debug the problem;
 - and of course, you can send us emails at the following address: support@cozycloud.cc.

## Where is your datacenter located?

Our infrastructure is located in Roubaix, France.

## Is my data safe?

Cozy has put in place several features in order to protect the user’s data. For instance, all the passwords you store inside Cozy are encrypted using your main password, so even in case of data breach, your bank or email account credentials will stay safe.
We also perform daily backups of your data, so we can restore them if needed.


## How much data can I store on my server

We provide 40GB of storage with each instance (well, technically 60GB are available, but we recommend for now not to use more than 40GB)

## What can i do if I forget my password ?

Once your password has been updated, you will have to look around all the applications that requires a password for connecting from an external account (for example Mail, Konnectors, Kresus...), and add again your new password to these accounts. For security reasons, when the password of the server is changed, we delete the different password of your other accounts stocked in Cozy.

If you are interested by how encryption works in CozyCloud, please visit [this](https://cozy.io/en/hack/cookbooks/encryption.html) page. 
 

---
