src/documents/contribute/index.html.md, before:

---
title: "Contributing to Cozycloud"
layout: "default"
---

# Contributing to Cozycloud

You can contribute to Cozy in many ways, wether you are a NodeJS Ninja or a
Net-Citizen willing to protect her/his privacy, all contributions are welcome!
Report a bug, submit a feature request or improve the documentation to ease
self-hosting, using or developing for Cozy. **There's something for everyone!**

Everything is open-source and hosted on
[Github](https://github.com/mycozycloud/), this page will explain you how can
help.


## Reporting a bug or submitting a feature request

We use Github's issues to report the bugs or submit a feature request. Every
application or module has its own Github page.
Try to be as descriptive as possible and add screenshots if you can,
espescially for bug reports.


## The documentation

You can improve the documentation you are currently reading by modifying and 
submitting us a pull request on the
[dedicated Github repository](https://github.com/jsilvestre/cozy-docs/).

Commit message:

add translations to possible contributions

src/documents/contribute/index.html.md, after:

---
title: "Contributing to Cozycloud"
layout: "default"
---

# Contributing to Cozycloud

You can contribute to Cozy in many ways, wether you are a NodeJS Ninja or a
Net-Citizen willing to protect her/his privacy, all contributions are welcome!
Report a bug, submit a feature request or improve the documentation to ease
self-hosting, translations, develop new applications... 
**There's something for everyone!**

Everything is libre and open-source and hosted on
[Github](https://github.com/mycozycloud/), this page will explain you how can
help.


## Reporting a bug or submitting a feature request

We use Github's issues to report the bugs or submit a feature request. Every
application or module has its own Github page.
Try to be as descriptive as possible and add screenshots if you can,
espescially for bug reports.


## The documentation

You can improve the documentation you are currently reading by modifying and 
submitting us a pull request on the
[dedicated Github repository](https://github.com/jsilvestre/cozy-docs/).
