src/documents/en/mobile/calendar.html.md, before:

---
title: "Calendar"
layout: "default"
category: "mobile"
menuOrder: 2
toc: true
---
# Calendar Synchronization

## Prepare your Cozy
Cozy uses CalDAV, which is the standard, to synchronize your calendars across devices. Everything is handled in a specific applications, Sync.

* First, go to your Cozy, under the "Choose your apps" menu.
* Then select the "Sync" application.
* Accept the application's permission, to process the installation.

<center>![Sync's installation intructions](/assets/images/mobile/install_sync_steps.gif)</center>

<br />
<br />
* Next, you need to get your CalDAV credentials.
* Open the Sync application.
* Write down your password.

<center>![Get CalDAV credentials intructions](/assets/images/mobile/use_sync_steps.gif)</center>

<br />
<br />
You are now ready to synchronize your devices!

Check the section relevant to your device's system to continue.

## Android

#### Install
There are multiple applications that can achieve what we want, but we advise you to use [DavDroid](http://davdroid.bitfire.at/) because it's open-source, though it's a paid app on the PlayStore.

Note: you can download it and install for free from the [F-droid store](https://f-droid.org/repository/browse/?fdid=at.bitfire.davdroid).

#### Configure
Once it's installed, open the application and click on the button to create a new account (see the blue circle on the picture below).
<center>![Android step 1](/assets/images/mobile/android/step1.png)</center>

<br />
<br />
Next, select "DAVDroid".
<center>![Android step 2](/assets/images/mobile/android/step2.png)</center>

<br />
<br />
You will have two choice. Choose "Login with URL and user name".
<center>![Android step 3](/assets/images/mobile/android/step3.png)</center>

<br />
<br />
Fill the form with the credentials you got from the Cozy's Sync app.
<center>![Android step 4](/assets/images/mobile/android/step4.png)</center>

<br />
<br />
Select the calendars you want to synchronize. If you want to synchronize your contacts too, select the available address book too.
<center>![Android step 5](/assets/images/mobile/android/step5.png)</center>

<br />
<br />
Choose a name for your account, you can choose anything, "Cozy" is just fine.
<center>![Android step 6](/assets/images/mobile/android/step6.png)</center>

<br />
<br />
You are actually done, but if you want to force the first synchronization, go to the accounts list.
<center>![Android step 7](/assets/images/mobile/android/step7.png)</center>

<br />
<br />
Then select your DAVDroid account in the list.
<center>![Android step 8](/assets/images/mobile/android/step8.png)</center>

<br />
<br />
Touch the "Calendar" button and it'll trigger a synchronization.
<center>![Android step 9](/assets/images/mobile/android/step9.png)</center>

<br />
<br />
Congratulations, your mobile device is now synchronized with your Cozy!

## iOS

#### Configure your CalDAV account
Open the Settings, select the "Mail, Contacts, Calendars" view, and click on "Add Account":
<center>![iOS step 1](/assets/images/mobile/ios/calendar/step1.jpg)</center>

<br />
<br />
Then select "Other" account:
<center>![iOS step 2](/assets/images/mobile/ios/calendar/step2.jpg)</center>

<br />
<br />
Then select "Add CalDAV Account", in the Calendars section:
<center>![iOS step 3](/assets/images/mobile/ios/calendar/step3.jpg)</center>

<br />
<br />
Finally, fill the form with the credentials you got from Cozy's Sync app:

* the "Server" input will vary for each user: yourcozyaddress/public/sync/principals/me
* the "Username input will always be "me",
* the "Password" input will be the password you got earlier from Cozy,
* the "Description" input stands for the user-friendly name of your choice, "Cozy" is just fine.

<center>![iOS step 4](/assets/images/mobile/ios/calendar/step4.jpg)</center>

<br />
<br />
And then click next. Activate or not reminders, and click save:
<center>![iOS step 5](/assets/images/mobile/ios/calendar/step5.jpg)</center>

<br />
<br />
Congratulations, your mobile device is now synchronized with your Cozy!
You can now configure the mobile Calendars application to choose which calendar you want to display.

#### Configure your calendars

Open the Calendar app.

You can already visualize the calendars of your Cozy.
Click on calendars to toggle calendar's visibility.
<center>![iOS step 6](/assets/images/mobile/ios/calendar/step6.jpg)</center>

<br />
<br />
Open the menu and click the button to add a new calendar.
<center>![iOS step 7](/assets/images/mobile/ios/calendar/step7.jpg)</center>

<br />
That's it! You can seamlessly manage your events from your mobile and your Cozy.

## OSX

Inside Calendar app, click on "Calendar" and click on "Add Account":
<center>![OSX step 1](/assets/images/mobile/osx/calendar/step1.jpg)</center>

<br />
<br />
Then select "Add CalDAV Account", and click on "Next":
<center>![OSX step 2](/assets/images/mobile/osx/calendar/step2.jpg)</center>

<br />
<br />
Select the Type of contact: Manual.
Finally, fill the form with the credentials you got from Cozy's Sync app:

* the "Server" input will vary for each user: yourcozyaddress/public/sync/principals/me
* the "Username input will always be "me",
* the "Password" input will be the password you got earlier from Cozy,

<center>![OSX step 3](/assets/images/mobile/osx/calendar/step3.jpg)</center>

<br />
<br />
Finally click on create.
Congratulations, your computer is now synchronized with your Cozy!
You can now configure the Calendars application to choose which calendar you want to display.
That's it! You can seamlessly manage your events from your computer and your Cozy.

## Firefox OS

#### Install
There is nothing to install to get started with Firefox OS! Just open the "Calendar" application.

#### Configure
Open the menu and click the button to add a new calendar.
<center>![Firefox OS step 1](/assets/images/mobile/firefoxos/step1.png)</center>

<br />
<br />
Then choose "CalDAV" option in the menu.
<center>![Firefox OS step 2](/assets/images/mobile/firefoxos/step2.png)</center>

<br />
<br />
Finally, fill the form with the credentials you got from Cozy's Sync app:

* the first input will always be "me".
* the second will be the password you got earlier from Cozy.
* the third will vary for each user: https://yourcozyaddress/public/sync/principals/me

<center>![Firefox OS step 3](/assets/images/mobile/firefoxos/step3.png)</center>

<br />
<br />
That's it! Your calendars will now be synchronized on a regular basis (default is 15 minutes). You can select calendars you want to synchronize directly from the menu.
<center>![Firefox OS step 4](/assets/images/mobile/firefoxos/step4.png)</center>

<br />
<br />
Congratulations, your mobile device is now synchronized with your Cozy!

## Thunderbird (Windows, OSX et GNU/Linux)

#### Install

It is necessary to install the addon Lightning: https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/thunderbird/addon/lightning/

#### Configure

In "File", select "New", and "Calendar...".
<center>![thunderbird step 1](/assets/images/mobile/thunderbird/en/calendar/step1.jpg)</center>

<br />
<br />
Select "On the Network" and click on "Next".
<center>![thunderbird step 2](/assets/images/mobile/thunderbird/en/calendar/step2.jpg)</center>

<br />
<br />
Select "CalDAV" and indicate the location of your calendar (from cozy), it will vary for each user and each calendar: https://yourcozyaddress/public/sync/calendars/me/name-of-your-calendar (be careful about capital letter of  "name-of-your-calendar").
Tick "Offline Support" if you wish that Thunderbird memorise your event to be able to consult them when you don't have internet.
Click on "Next".
<center>![thunderbird step 3](/assets/images/mobile/thunderbird/en/calendar/step3.jpg)</center>

<br />
<br />
Choose a name to identify your cozy calendar. It's advised to choose the same name than on your cozy, mentioning it comes from your cozy "name-of-your-calendar_cozy".
Choose a color (the same than on your cozy make it easier). Choose also if you want to display alarms of this calendar, and finally, select the email address you want to link to this agenda.
Click on "Next".
<center>![thunderbird step 4](/assets/images/mobile/thunderbird/en/calendar/step4.jpg)</center>

<br />
<br />
Click on "Finish". Your calendar is now created in Thunderbird.

#### First synchronisation

As soon as Thunderbird will try to synchronise your calendar the first time, it will ask for your calendar's credentials.
* the "User Name" input will always be "me",
* the "Password" input will be the password you got earlier from Cozy,
* Tick the box "Use Password Manager to remember this password." if you don't want to indicate it every time Thunderbird will synchronise your calendars.
<center>![thunderbird step 5](/assets/images/mobile/thunderbird/en/calendar/step5.jpg)</center>

<br />
<br />
Congratulations, your computer is now synchronized with your Cozy!
That's it! You can seamlessly manage your events from your computer and your Cozy.



<br />
<br />

#### How to synchronize an existing calendar

If you want to synchronize an existing calendar with your Cozy, you will have to perform some manipulations. Create a new calendar inside Cozy, import your existing calendar into it, then create a new local calendar synchronized with Cozy. Here we go:

(this tutorial explains how to do with Thunderbird, the same applies to other clients).

* **First step : export your calendar from Thunderbird/ligthning**: in Thunderbird, open your calendar, select it in the left column, then right click on it and choose to export. You’ll get an `.ics` file;

* **2° step : create a new calendar in Cozy**: if needed, install the Calendar app, and open it. Click on the plus sign to create a new calendar, then on “Sync Settings” in the bottom of left column. Inside the popup, go to “iCalendar Import”, click on “Select an iCalendar file” and select the `.ics` file you exported at step 1;

* **3° step: get sync url**: inside Cozy, start Sync app, scroll to “CalDAV configuration (Calendar)” and click on “Thunderbird”. Choose the calendar you want to synchronize, and copy its URL;

* **last step: synchronize this new calendar with Thunderbird**: go back to Thunderbird, create a new calendar and sync it with the URL you just copied, as explained above. Don’t forget then to delete your initial, not synchronized, calendar, to prevent duplicates.

<br />
<br />

## Related resources
* [Forum discussion](https://forum.cozy.io/)

Commit message:

Add Android application for contacts and calendar synchronization

src/documents/en/mobile/calendar.html.md, after:

---
title: "Calendar"
layout: "default"
category: "mobile"
menuOrder: 2
toc: true
---
# Calendar Synchronization

## Prepare your Cozy
Cozy uses CalDAV, which is the standard, to synchronize your calendars across devices. Everything is handled in a specific applications, Sync.

* First, go to your Cozy, under the "Choose your apps" menu.
* Then select the "Sync" application.
* Accept the application's permission, to process the installation.

<center>![Sync's installation intructions](/assets/images/mobile/install_sync_steps.gif)</center>

<br />
<br />
* Next, you need to get your CalDAV credentials.
* Open the Sync application.
* Write down your password.

<center>![Get CalDAV credentials intructions](/assets/images/mobile/use_sync_steps.gif)</center>

<br />
<br />
You are now ready to synchronize your devices!

Check the section relevant to your device's system to continue.

## Android

For Android, we advise you to use [Cozy application](/en/mobile/files.html).


#### Install

There are multiple applications that can achieve what we want, but we advise you to use [DavDroid](http://davdroid.bitfire.at/) because it's open-source, though it's a paid app on the PlayStore.

Note: you can download it and install for free from the [F-droid store](https://f-droid.org/repository/browse/?fdid=at.bitfire.davdroid).

#### Configure
Once it's installed, open the application and click on the button to create a new account (see the blue circle on the picture below).
<center>![Android step 1](/assets/images/mobile/android/step1.png)</center>

<br />
<br />
Next, select "DAVDroid".
<center>![Android step 2](/assets/images/mobile/android/step2.png)</center>

<br />
<br />
You will have two choice. Choose "Login with URL and user name".
<center>![Android step 3](/assets/images/mobile/android/step3.png)</center>

<br />
<br />
Fill the form with the credentials you got from the Cozy's Sync app.
<center>![Android step 4](/assets/images/mobile/android/step4.png)</center>

<br />
<br />
Select the calendars you want to synchronize. If you want to synchronize your contacts too, select the available address book too.
<center>![Android step 5](/assets/images/mobile/android/step5.png)</center>

<br />
<br />
Choose a name for your account, you can choose anything, "Cozy" is just fine.
<center>![Android step 6](/assets/images/mobile/android/step6.png)</center>

<br />
<br />
You are actually done, but if you want to force the first synchronization, go to the accounts list.
<center>![Android step 7](/assets/images/mobile/android/step7.png)</center>

<br />
<br />
Then select your DAVDroid account in the list.
<center>![Android step 8](/assets/images/mobile/android/step8.png)</center>

<br />
<br />
Touch the "Calendar" button and it'll trigger a synchronization.
<center>![Android step 9](/assets/images/mobile/android/step9.png)</center>

<br />
<br />
Congratulations, your mobile device is now synchronized with your Cozy!

## iOS

#### Configure your CalDAV account
Open the Settings, select the "Mail, Contacts, Calendars" view, and click on "Add Account":
<center>![iOS step 1](/assets/images/mobile/ios/calendar/step1.jpg)</center>

<br />
<br />
Then select "Other" account:
<center>![iOS step 2](/assets/images/mobile/ios/calendar/step2.jpg)</center>

<br />
<br />
Then select "Add CalDAV Account", in the Calendars section:
<center>![iOS step 3](/assets/images/mobile/ios/calendar/step3.jpg)</center>

<br />
<br />
Finally, fill the form with the credentials you got from Cozy's Sync app:

* the "Server" input will vary for each user: yourcozyaddress/public/sync/principals/me
* the "Username input will always be "me",
* the "Password" input will be the password you got earlier from Cozy,
* the "Description" input stands for the user-friendly name of your choice, "Cozy" is just fine.

<center>![iOS step 4](/assets/images/mobile/ios/calendar/step4.jpg)</center>

<br />
<br />
And then click next. Activate or not reminders, and click save:
<center>![iOS step 5](/assets/images/mobile/ios/calendar/step5.jpg)</center>

<br />
<br />
Congratulations, your mobile device is now synchronized with your Cozy!
You can now configure the mobile Calendars application to choose which calendar you want to display.

#### Configure your calendars

Open the Calendar app.

You can already visualize the calendars of your Cozy.
Click on calendars to toggle calendar's visibility.
<center>![iOS step 6](/assets/images/mobile/ios/calendar/step6.jpg)</center>

<br />
<br />
Open the menu and click the button to add a new calendar.
<center>![iOS step 7](/assets/images/mobile/ios/calendar/step7.jpg)</center>

<br />
That's it! You can seamlessly manage your events from your mobile and your Cozy.

## OSX

Inside Calendar app, click on "Calendar" and click on "Add Account":
<center>![OSX step 1](/assets/images/mobile/osx/calendar/step1.jpg)</center>

<br />
<br />
Then select "Add CalDAV Account", and click on "Next":
<center>![OSX step 2](/assets/images/mobile/osx/calendar/step2.jpg)</center>

<br />
<br />
Select the Type of contact: Manual.
Finally, fill the form with the credentials you got from Cozy's Sync app:

* the "Server" input will vary for each user: yourcozyaddress/public/sync/principals/me
* the "Username input will always be "me",
* the "Password" input will be the password you got earlier from Cozy,

<center>![OSX step 3](/assets/images/mobile/osx/calendar/step3.jpg)</center>

<br />
<br />
Finally click on create.
Congratulations, your computer is now synchronized with your Cozy!
You can now configure the Calendars application to choose which calendar you want to display.
That's it! You can seamlessly manage your events from your computer and your Cozy.

## Firefox OS

#### Install
There is nothing to install to get started with Firefox OS! Just open the "Calendar" application.

#### Configure
Open the menu and click the button to add a new calendar.
<center>![Firefox OS step 1](/assets/images/mobile/firefoxos/step1.png)</center>

<br />
<br />
Then choose "CalDAV" option in the menu.
<center>![Firefox OS step 2](/assets/images/mobile/firefoxos/step2.png)</center>

<br />
<br />
Finally, fill the form with the credentials you got from Cozy's Sync app:

* the first input will always be "me".
* the second will be the password you got earlier from Cozy.
* the third will vary for each user: https://yourcozyaddress/public/sync/principals/me

<center>![Firefox OS step 3](/assets/images/mobile/firefoxos/step3.png)</center>

<br />
<br />
That's it! Your calendars will now be synchronized on a regular basis (default is 15 minutes). You can select calendars you want to synchronize directly from the menu.
<center>![Firefox OS step 4](/assets/images/mobile/firefoxos/step4.png)</center>

<br />
<br />
Congratulations, your mobile device is now synchronized with your Cozy!

## Thunderbird (Windows, OSX et GNU/Linux)

#### Install

It is necessary to install the addon Lightning: https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/thunderbird/addon/lightning/

#### Configure

In "File", select "New", and "Calendar...".
<center>![thunderbird step 1](/assets/images/mobile/thunderbird/en/calendar/step1.jpg)</center>

<br />
<br />
Select "On the Network" and click on "Next".
<center>![thunderbird step 2](/assets/images/mobile/thunderbird/en/calendar/step2.jpg)</center>

<br />
<br />
Select "CalDAV" and indicate the location of your calendar (from cozy), it will vary for each user and each calendar: https://yourcozyaddress/public/sync/calendars/me/name-of-your-calendar (be careful about capital letter of  "name-of-your-calendar").
Tick "Offline Support" if you wish that Thunderbird memorise your event to be able to consult them when you don't have internet.
Click on "Next".
<center>![thunderbird step 3](/assets/images/mobile/thunderbird/en/calendar/step3.jpg)</center>

<br />
<br />
Choose a name to identify your cozy calendar. It's advised to choose the same name than on your cozy, mentioning it comes from your cozy "name-of-your-calendar_cozy".
Choose a color (the same than on your cozy make it easier). Choose also if you want to display alarms of this calendar, and finally, select the email address you want to link to this agenda.
Click on "Next".
<center>![thunderbird step 4](/assets/images/mobile/thunderbird/en/calendar/step4.jpg)</center>

<br />
<br />
Click on "Finish". Your calendar is now created in Thunderbird.

#### First synchronisation

As soon as Thunderbird will try to synchronise your calendar the first time, it will ask for your calendar's credentials.
* the "User Name" input will always be "me",
* the "Password" input will be the password you got earlier from Cozy,
* Tick the box "Use Password Manager to remember this password." if you don't want to indicate it every time Thunderbird will synchronise your calendars.
<center>![thunderbird step 5](/assets/images/mobile/thunderbird/en/calendar/step5.jpg)</center>

<br />
<br />
Congratulations, your computer is now synchronized with your Cozy!
That's it! You can seamlessly manage your events from your computer and your Cozy.



<br />
<br />

#### How to synchronize an existing calendar

If you want to synchronize an existing calendar with your Cozy, you will have to perform some manipulations. Create a new calendar inside Cozy, import your existing calendar into it, then create a new local calendar synchronized with Cozy. Here we go:

(this tutorial explains how to do with Thunderbird, the same applies to other clients).

* **First step : export your calendar from Thunderbird/ligthning**: in Thunderbird, open your calendar, select it in the left column, then right click on it and choose to export. You’ll get an `.ics` file;

* **2° step : create a new calendar in Cozy**: if needed, install the Calendar app, and open it. Click on the plus sign to create a new calendar, then on “Sync Settings” in the bottom of left column. Inside the popup, go to “iCalendar Import”, click on “Select an iCalendar file” and select the `.ics` file you exported at step 1;

* **3° step: get sync url**: inside Cozy, start Sync app, scroll to “CalDAV configuration (Calendar)” and click on “Thunderbird”. Choose the calendar you want to synchronize, and copy its URL;

* **last step: synchronize this new calendar with Thunderbird**: go back to Thunderbird, create a new calendar and sync it with the URL you just copied, as explained above. Don’t forget then to delete your initial, not synchronized, calendar, to prevent duplicates.

<br />
<br />

## Related resources
* [Forum discussion](https://forum.cozy.io/)
